notes 1
malicious activity is detected using two methods

Signature Based detection (SIDS)
anamoly based detection (AIDS)

SIDS use standard dataset of intrusion detection to identify malicious activities in the net-
work. Standard dataset consist of signatures, which define the pattern of attack. Packet
entering in the system is analyzed using this dataset. If the pattern is matched then it is
consider as malicious activity and alarm is generated for administrator. Otherwise, the
packet is considered as normal and passed in the network. Limitation of SIDS is uniden-
tified attack cannot be handled by this system. If old or outdated dataset is use it does
not contain signature of unidentified attacks. This leads to degrade in performance of
SIDS. AIDS method use behavior based analyses to detect malicious activities. Normal
behavior of all type of traffic is stored in the form of rule. These rules are use as pattern
to analyze and detect packet entering in the network [1]. Each packet behavior is match
with the rules, if match is found it is consider as normal behavior. Otherwise, any devia-
tion in rule is considered as malicious activity. Limitation of ADIS is this method gener-
ates more false alarms. Slight deviation in the rule is considered as malicious behavior.
In most of the network it is difficult to find the normal behavior of packets. In current
internet scenario there is a need of IDS, which can offer collaborative, distributed, cross-
platform and various protection services. This will help in improving network security
and all new attacks can be identified 

In this paper, a blockchain based framework is proposed, to exchange signatures of
new attacks in the distributed network. Proposed work use signature as well as anomaly
attack detection methods in a hybrid approach. Packet entering in the system is analyzed
by signature detection. If any malicious activity is detected then packet is discarded,otherwise it is passed to the anomaly detection. Anomaly detection method analyze
packet and check for normal activities. If packet is normal then it is passed in network
otherwise packet is handed over to blockchain framework. This framework is respon-
sible for signature creation and distribution in the network. Blockchain provides secu-
rity to the signatures while exchange in between nodes of distributed network. Intruders
cannot tamper signatures are it is replicated on number of nodes in network. Newly cre-
ated signature is used by all nodes to update dataset. Updated dataset helps in improv-
ing performance of signature detection. The proposed framework is the first IDS which
makes use of blockchain for signature exchange. Features of this architecture are it’s
fully distributed and fault tolerant.
